---
title: "Beyond the Walled Garden: What Does iOS Sideloading Mean for MDMs?"
date: 2024-02-13T22:51:28"
draft: false
tags: []
---

<p>For years, Mobile Device Management (MDM) solutions have thrived within the controlled environment of Apple's App Store. Distributing and managing corporate apps for iOS devices felt seamless, predictable, and secure. But with the winds of change blowing from the European Union, a new reality is dawning with the release of iOS 17.4 SDK: <strong>iOS sideloading.</strong></p><p>This blog post aims to navigate this uncharted territory for MDMs, exploring the potential impact of sideloading on your app deployment strategies and overall device management practices.</p><h3 id="a-recap-what-is-sideloading"><strong>A Recap: What is Sideloading?</strong></h3><p>Traditionally, iOS users could only install apps downloaded from the official App Store. However, sideloading breaks down this wall, allowing apps to be installed directly from sources outside the App Store, like websites or developer platforms.</p><h3 id="clearing-the-confusion"><strong>Clearing the Confusion:</strong></h3><p>Before diving into the potential implications, let's address the key point of confusion: <strong>sideloading for individual users is NOT currently available and is not guaranteed to be as a feature.</strong> The EU's Digital Markets Act requires app distribution to be more open and competitive, prompting this development. Apple must provide alternatives to its App Store-dominated ecosystem under the law. This move relies on sideloading, the ability to install apps from outside the App Store. It opens third-party app markets, giving users more software options.</p><h3 id="the-eu-and-the-sideloading-saga"><strong>The EU and the Sideloading Saga</strong></h3><p>The European Union's Digital Markets Act (DMA) aims to foster fairer competition in the digital market. One of its key requirements is for Apple to open up its ecosystem, allowing alternative app stores and payment methods on iOS devices within the EU. While the exact implementation remains under development, it's clear that sideloading, in some form, is coming to iOS devices in the EU.</p>