---
title: "Enhancing macOS App Deployment with Pre-Install and Post-Install Scripts"
date: 2023-10-25T08:47:23"
draft: false
tags: []
---

<p>In the realm of macOS app deployment, Intune continues to improve and evolve, providing with an ever-increasing level of control and enhanced functionality. One of the standout features released with the recent release of Microsoft Intune is the ability to execute pre-install and post-install scripts, offering granular oversight throughout the app installation lifecycle. </p><p>In this article will explore the advantages of these scripts and illustrate their utility with a practical example of Google Chrome.</p><p><strong>Pre-Install Script: Laying the Groundwor</strong></p><p>Before diving into the actual app installation, the pre-install script sets the stage. This preliminary phase allows administrators to carry out tasks such as verifying system prerequisites, adjusting settings, or downloading additional components. For instance, if a macOS PKG app requires certain system configurations to function optimally, the pre-install script can ensure these are set up prior to the installation.</p><p><strong>Post-Install Script: Fine-Tuning the Installation</strong></p><p>Upon successful installation of the app, the post-install script comes into action. This script is designed for post-processing tasks, such as registering the app with the system, fine-tuning user preferences, or activating specific features. If the app you're deploying requires particular permissions or configurations, the post-install script can seamlessly integrate these elements.</p><p><strong>Customizing App Installation with Scripts</strong></p><p>The combination of pre-install and post-install scripts empowers administrators to tailor the app installation process to their specific needs. These scripts offer a versatile toolset for addressing unique requirements and ensuring seamless app deployment.</p><p>Here's an example scenario:</p><ul><li><strong>Deploying Microsoft Defender for Endpoint on macOS</strong></li></ul><p>The pre-install script can check for the presence of Microsoft Defender for Endpoint and the Microsoft Intune management agent. If either is missing, the script can initiate their installation.</p><p>The post-install script can handle tasks such as configuring Microsoft Defender for Endpoint settings, adding system extensions to the list of allowed extensions, and granting necessary permissions.</p><p><strong>Conclusion</strong></p><p>Intune's evolving capabilities in macOS app deployment, particularly with the use of pre-install and post-install scripts, empower MDM admins to create a more customized and efficient installation process. These scripts not only facilitate optimal app configurations but also contribute to a seamless user experience.</p>